BeeGui is the graphic user interface for Windows of the Bee archiver.
With BeeGui you can create and manage the files .Bee. It's a free software and is distributed according to the terms of GNU General Public License.
BeeGui uses as compression algorithm the core of Bee, a sophisticated algorithm created by Andrew Filinsky; the technique used for the data compression is based on the use of a PPM modeller (Prediction with Partial string Matching) and of a kind of Range Coder as codifier. Result is high level of compression and good speed.
If you want to have more informations about compression technique used by Bee, you can visit the Arturos Campos home page or contact the author Andrew Filinsky.
Besides, Bee manages the files for typology (Context modelling principles), so it is possible to optimize the level of compression for the various files typologies. Using BeeOpt is possible to calculate the optimum parameters to be passed to Bee for the compression of specific types of files. In this way, the performances can improved of about 5%.
At present, Bee is optimized for the most diffuse types of files, as:
.bmp, .c, .dic, .dll, .doc, .exe, .fbd, .hlp, .ini, .jpg, .log, .pas, .pdf, .txt, .xls .

With BeeOpt you will be able to optimize the parameters which Bee uses for the compression of the files that you generally manage in your activity.
Besides, Bee allows to archive the files using the solid compression technique. In this way, especially when it is necessary to archive many little files of the same type (for example .txt), it's possible to obtain increases of the compression level also of 50%. We observe that generally when the amount of available memory is large, then greater is the result, especially when the solid compression is used.
If you want to have more informations about Bee performances, you can visit some web sites of data compression as:
www.maximumcompression.com
Bee supports the cyclic redundancy control (CRC32) for the verify of the integrity of data. Bee allows to safeguard your privacy, allowing the cryptation of the archived data. For the cryptation of the data, Bee uses the BlowFish crypter created by Bruce Schneier. BlowFish is considered one of the safer coding algorithms, and at present theoretical technical or violation practices aren't knowed. BlowFish is a crypter of blocks (64 bits) and the minimum recommended length of the passwords is 4 bytes. If you want further information about BlowFish click here.
If you want to distribute your files compressed with BeeGui, you can use the auto-extracting modules. At present, two auto-extracting module exist: one with command line (text mode), and one with graphic interface, both very little ( less of 60 kb). Furthermore BeeGui manages the auto-extracting archives as normal archives (.Bee), and in any moment you can bring up to date, modify and cancel the files contained in the archives.
BeeGui, the graphic interface of Bee for windows, supports the drag & drop and allows to sail inside the archives as explorer inside windows. With BeeGui you can bring up to date the archived files and the directory, and extract the content with various overwriting modes. You can visualize the archived files with the intern visualizator or using an external application, and if you modify the file, you can bring up to date the archive with a simple click. BeeGui is available in various languages, and is really simple adding new languages. If you want to know the way to add new languages, you can contact Melchiorre Caruso. Furthermore, you can customize the BeeGui appearance using the panel of the buttons or changing the buttons skin, in the way that you like more.